---
title: Disclaimer
url: 1632.html
id: 1632
comments: false
date: 2009-11-21 20:23:10
---

Many links on this site lead to other sites that compensate me if you purchase the product from them. Some of my post are reviews of products I get paid for if you purchase the product.  Some reviews I post I never receive any compensation.  Sometimes I purchased the product on my own.  Sometimes the product was given to me for free to review.  I may or may not have been compensated to review the product.  In all cases, the reviews are as truthful as I know how to make them.  This does not mean that I may not have left things out you may have wanted to know.  This may have been intentional but most likely was unintentional.  I try to write about products I think you will like. In many cases, I use copy from the advertisers own site.  For example, I use Amazon products once a week.  Most, if not all, of the post comes from Amazon.  I have no reason to believe the material I am posting is inaccurate.  But, you need to understand that the post is there because I believe it is something you may be interested in and unless I state that I own the product myself, you can assume it is just a general suggestion of something you might consider and not something I have any personal experience with Many of the advertisements displayed on this site are from ad brokers who placed them there.  Anything they say are the advertiser’s claim and not my own.  While I do attempt to work with advertisers who are reputable, the nature of how the ads are delivered to the site make it impossible for me to filter all the ads. In short, you need to realize that part of how I make my living is as a blogger.  Since no one is paying me to write the post every day, I rely on various methods of generating income from this site.  I realize that some of you will have a problem with this, but I hope you understand that in order for you to enjoy the information I either need to be independently wealthy, or I’d need to find some way of being compensated for the valuable content I produce.